\documentclass[a4paper,10pt]{tufte-book}

\include{packages}

\include{commands}

\begin{document}

\fontsize{12pt}{15pt}\selectfont

%\blankpage

\include{titlepage}

\blankpage

\include{epigraphs}

\cleardoublepage

\include{copyrights}

\cleardoublepage

\chapter*{Abstract}

\indent The subject of the thesis concerns the study of infinite sequences, in
one or two dimensions, supporting the theoretical aspects with systems for
symbolic and logic computation. In particular, in the thesis some sequences
related to Riordan arrays are examined from both an algebraic and combinatorial
points of view and also by using approaches usually applied in numerical
analysis.

Another part concerns sequences that enumerate particular combinatorial
objects, such as trees, polyominoes, and lattice paths, generated by symbolic
and certified computations; moreover, tiling problems and backtracking
techniques are studied in depth and enumeration of recursive structures are
also given.

We propose a preliminary suite of tools to interact with the Online
Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences, providing a crawling facility to download
sequences recursively according to their cross references, pretty-printing them
and, finally, drawing graphs representing their connections.

In the context of automatic proof derivation, an extension to an automatic
theorem prover is proposed to support the relational programming paradigm.
This allows us to encode facts about combinatorial objects and to enumerate the
corresponding languages by producing certified theorems at the same time.

As a concrete illustration, we provide many chunks of code written using
functional programming languages; our focus is to support theoretical
derivations using sound, clear and elegant implementations to check their
validity.


\tableofcontents

\listoftables


\chapter*{Introduction}
\input{introduction/introduction.tex}

\cleardoublepage

\chapter*{Acknowledgments}

$\quad$

First, I want to thank my family who always supported me, I dedicate my
dissertation to my father and my mother, with love and admiration; I also thank
Angela, I can't imagine a better sister. 

Second, I want to thank my advisor Donatella Merlini and friends (Professors
also) Giovanni Maria Marchetti and Marco Maggesi.

Third, I want to thank Professors Paul Barry and Neil J. Sloane who read
carefully and proposed constructive criticism and comments to make this work
better.

I remember and keep within me my friends and those people who make and have
made my life beautiful; \textit{Glazie a tutti}.

\cleardoublepage

\include{dedications}

\cleardoublepage

\chapter{Backgrounds}
\label{ch:backgrounds}

\input{backgrounds/backgrounds.tex}

\chapter{Functions and Jordan canonical\newline forms of Riordan matrices}
\label{ch:Riordan-matrices-function}

\input{Riordan-matrices-functions/content.tex}

\chapter{Algebraic generating functions for\newline languages avoiding Riordan patterns}
\label{ch:algebraic-gfs-languages-avoiding-Riordan-patterns}

\input{deps/algebraic-gf-for-languages-avoiding-Riordan-patterns/tex/body.tex}

\chapter{Crawling, (pretty) printing\newline and graphing the OEIS}
\label{ch:OEIS:tools}

\input{OEIS/oeis.tex}

\chapter{Queens, tilings, ECO\newline and polyominoes}
\label{ch:queens-tilings-polyominoes}

\input{backtracking/backtracking.tex}

\chapter{Semi-Certified Interactive\newline Logic Programming}
\label{ch:scilp}

\input{SCILP/scilp}

\iffalse
\chapter*{Conclusions}
\input{introduction/conclusions.tex}
\fi

\bibliographystyle{plainnat}
\bibliography{SCILP/scilp,deps/algebraic-gf-for-languages-avoiding-Riordan-patterns/tex/avoiding-RA-patterns,backtracking/backtracking,backgrounds/backgrounds,deps/oeis-tools/doc/oeis}

\end{document}
